Explain in detail different sales promotion techniques adopted by the marketers.

Some of the sales promotion activities commonly used by the marketer to increase the sale are:
Rebate refers to selling product at a special price which is less than the original price for a limited period of time.
This offer is given to clear off the stock or excessive inventory for example coke announced 2 liter bottles at Rs 35 only.
Discount refers to reduction of certain percentage of price from list price for a limited period of time. 
The discounts induce the customers to buy and to buy more. 
Generally at the end of season big companies offer their products at discounted price to clear off the stock for example season’s sale at Snow-White Jain Sons, Paul Garments, Bhuvan Garments,etc.
Refunds refers to refund or part of price paid by customer on presenting the proof of purchase for example,Rs 2 off on presentation of empty pack of Ruffle Lays.
Premiums or Gifts or Product Combination are most popular and commonly used promotion tool.
It refers to giving a free gift on purchase of the product.
Generally the free gift is related to product but it is not necessary for example, Mug free with Bourn vita, Shaker free with Coffee, Toothbrush free with Toothpaste,etc.
Quantity Deals refers to offer of extra quantity in a special package at less price or on extra purchase some quantity free for example, buy three get one free, this scheme of buy three get one free scheme is available on soaps.
Samples refers to distribution of free samples of product to the customers. These are distributed when the seller wants the customer must try the product. Generally when a new product is launched for example, when Hindustan Level launched Surf Excel it distributed the samples as it wanted the customers to try it.
Contests refers to participation of consumers in competitive events organised by the firm and winners are given some reward for example, Camlin Company organizes painting competition, Bourn vita quiz contest and some companies organise contest of writing slogans and best slogan is awarded prize.
Instant Draws and Assigned Gifts includes the offers like ‘scratch a card’ and win instantly a refrigerator, car, T-shirt, computer etc.
Lucky Draw refers to draws that are taken out by including the bill number or names of customers who have purchased the goods and lucky winner gets free car, computer, A.C., T.V., etc. Draw can be taken out daily, weekly, monthly, etc.
Usable Benefits includes offers like ‘Purchase goods worth Rs 5000 and get a holiday package’ or get a discount voucher, etc.
Many marketers offer zero percent interest on financing of consumer durable goods like washing machine, T.V. etc. e.g., 24 easy installments 6 paid as front payment and remaining 18 with post-dated cheques. In Full Finance customers should be careful about the file charges etc.
Packaged Premium is type of sales promotion the free gift is kept inside the pack. The gift is kept in limited products but the excitement of getting the gift induces the customer to buy the product for example, gold pendant in soap, gold coin in Tata tea etc.
Container Premium refers to use of special container or boxes to pack the products which could be reused by the customer for example, Pet Bottles for Cold Drinks. This bottles can be used for Steering Water, Plastic Jars for Bourn vita, Maltova, etc. which can be reused by the housewives in kitchen.

Rebate
Inventory
Discounts
Refunds
Premiums
Gifts
Product
Combination
Quantity
Deals
Samples
Contests
Instant
Draws
Lucky
Draws
Usable
Benifits
Full 
Finance
Packaged
Premium
Container
Premium



